BROAD DAY-NIGHT
		This is a rather funny phrase, and if you are that quick to judge so, it is not a typographical error. In fact if you type this on Microsoft word with a period (full stop) at the end, it will be underlined in red, showing that the computer itself is confused about what you wrote. Just replace the ‘N’ in ‘NIGHT’ with an ‘L’ and now you come close to what we are talking about. The phrase is paradoxical, but it is an intentional paradox.

‘… in broad day light’. Whenever w e hear that phrase it is almost always in connection with an act of sheer daring. Many Nigerians will remember Lawrence Anini of blessed memory. Americans will remember the North Hollywood shootout at the Bank of America. Well if you do not remember any of these you may do well to see the movie ‘44seconds’ or you may try to see the National Geographic Channel documentary or you may ‘Google’ it. You may also see the Nigerian movie telling …

A police officer friend of mine once told a story. This is reality. Honestly speaking, this is a real life story.
Here is the conversation.

Officer A: “a robbery is taking place at so and so street.”
Officer on duty: “we are yet to receive any such report from the people of that area.”
Officer A: “ok, I am now bringing the report to you.”
Officer on duty: “I mean that somebody from that street should come and report the robbery.”

A Nigerian musician talked about somethinf like this in one of his songs.

Robbers used to rob at night and in haste. But things have changed these days. They may even rob close to a police station, and nobody will blink an eye. They remain for as long as they chose to.

So while the robbery is going on, the police are? Sleeping, maybe… on duty? It is night for the police, the officers on duty; the time they should be in bed (you would actually find them lying on their counters if you walk into a police station), and night time for the robbers also since the authorities do not ‘see’ or ‘hear’ about them, but it is daylight for every other person. A broad day-night indeed. Paradox unparadoxed


THE WAY THE WORLD IS
		Man has mind. And one of the functions of mind is to make sense of the things which it perceives through the senses. This making of sense simply means to draw conclusions. We live on conclusions. We only live as good a life as the conclusions we draw. For instance the conclusion that death is dead has filled men with renewed energy to live this life which they believe they will continue in a new dimension; likewise, the conclusion that life is lifeless has led many a people to embrace a culture of death. But is it every single of man’s problem that he has a very good conclusion about, which is easily accessible to the mind of the average person?
I think the answer is “no”. One issue about which a lot of men are divided about the conclusion is the problem of evil. Man has problem living right with the problem of evil since it cannot find the right conclusions about it, though some religious worldviews offer conclusions which have enabled their adherents live right with it. But is it possible to reach a common-sense conclusion about the problem of evil which is accessible to the mind, where the greatest pain of evil exists, of the average person?
To answer that question it will be worthwhile to take some time to reflect on what constitutes an evil. But to do that will require us to state as clearly as possible what evil is. I here make a reasoned attempt to define evil as any condition or process which causes pain to the subject experiencing it contrary to what it/s/he expects or has planned for. An example of a conditional evil could be that in which the majority of Nigerians are immersed by the action of its people. An earthquake which claims lives and properties can be considered a process evil. There may well be others. But I shall here proceed with this definition to classify evils. But it is important to note that philosophy classifies evil into two categories: natural evil, and moral evil. Things like sickness and death being called a natural evil; and something like murder known as a moral evil. But I wish to use a different classification here.
Firstly, evil may be inflicted directly by man on his fellow man. For instance the conditional evil many unborn Nigerians will grow up to find themselves in, the many bombings that are taking place in Nigeria these days.
Secondly, evil may also be inflicted on a subject by an object (man-made or natural), as for example when someone dashes a foot against a stone and comes to pain.
Thirdly, evil may be inflicted on a subject by the forces of nature in process. A prime example is the many hurricanes that are always in the news these days.
A closer look at these discussions will reveal that man is the prime subject of evil, and thus the presence of man, almost exclusively, dictates whether or not evil exists at a particular place and time. In a word, man is the measure of all things evil. With this observation in mind, I now proceed to look at each of these classes of evil one after the other to see how we can make sense of each of them.
Men have often used the presence of evil as a reason to deny the existence of an all-knowing, all-benevolent being. This is the way Epicurus summarizes the whole issue:
Is God willing to prevent evil, but not able; then he is not omnipotent
Is he able but not willing; then he is malevolent
Is he both willing and able; then whence cometh evil?
Is he neither willing nor able; then why call him God?
Let’s look at the three classes of evil already established to see whether or not it is really up to God to take away all our suffering in the way Epicurus envisions.
Firstly, all men inflict evil one upon another. Think of the many wars raging in the world today, even after the “war to end all wars.” It would be fair to ask if it is really up to God to take away such evils. For if he does it by bringing all of us before the tribunal, we will all be in chains. Also, if he does it by compulsion, then we will all be zombies. So I do not see how God could be held culpable for such evil, for that is the way man is, fatally flawed, and it is left to each man to try and become better.
Secondly, when an inanimate object inflicts pain on a subject, it is really not up to God to try to make the world a better place by removing the evil here and now. (I’m sure Adam must have dashed his foot against a stone many times before the fall since he didn’t have safety boots; and maybe taken a prick of the thorn bush on his bum, except they were made of leather). For if you dash your foot against a stone, whose fault will it be? God who made the stone to be solid, the stone itself, or you who didn’t look? God has given the stone a nature to be hard; the stone is busy being what it is meant to be, a hard object; and you are busy looking somewhere else that you did not see the stone. So I do not think it’s up to God to take away such in the evil here and now, for that is the way the stone is When a plane comes crashing down because of some mechanical fault we begin thinking, “oh, God should have fixed that screw in mid-air.” Well, if God fixed that for us, then, what use are the engineers like myself? So I really do not think its up to God to take away such evil here and now, for that is the way the plane is, a faulty plane bound to crash-land.
Lastly, volcanoes have been erupting on earth since the beginning of time, and as long as man was not affected, it could have gone on forever. Similarly, the dust storms being observed in the planet Mars is not considered an evil by anybody. Also, asteroids have been flying through space for as long as the universe has been in existence. But if one asteroid happens to be directly coming to earth, then, we begin thinking “oh, God should direct it somewhere else.” Well, the universe, and the earth itself is a dynamic place and those processes which we call natural disasters are simply the earth’s way of renewing and beautifying herself. That is the way the earth is.
The natural evils of sickness and death are due to some problems in the human system which we may or may not know about. Thus it would really not be up to God to do away with such evil in the here and now, for that is the way the system was made: to tend towards maximum entropy, and to wear and build and tear. Also, if the universe itself is finite, so must all things inside of it. That is just the nature of it.
Truly evil must be frowned at but the best we can do is to be prepared to prevent whatever is within our reach to prevent  for in the words of Anthony De Mello, “that is the way the world is.”


G. P. MUST NOT FALL
		But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted, and were scattered abroad, as sheep having no shepherd. (Mt 9:36). These are the words of Jesus, appropriated by a graduate of Petroleum Engineering from the University of Benin, whose desire it is to make known to those who are still in the system, especially those just coming in, the pit they are most likely to fall into unless . . .
I have never been a dull student, as many of those who know me well can testify, and so I have a vast experience of the subject about which I write in this article. Thus I wish that you the reader would take it personal as if I were saying the same things to you in person.
You, my dearest fresher/jambite or whatever label you may currently be carrying, may not understand very well what power lies in the title of this article. It is the same reasons for which the staylites tease, ‘u neva get gp. But never mind whenever you’re being called that. Just know that they are simply trying to hit back, which is usually fun, but not always funny with all people. I only wished it were used with more discretion. So don’t just pay much heed to the label. You’ll get there and it will be time for you to decide what to do with your own turn. You may soon discover that many of them are actually in a stalemate. Well, remember you will also get there. Let’s go there. Abi time dey?
I would be unable to tell you anything meaningful in this page if I do not bring in a little history. By the way where would we get lessons if there were no past? So unless you understand the history you cannot comprehend the lesson. So be patient.
This story is nothing new since everybody tells stories. But the story I tell is a unique one since it is MY story.
I gained admission into the University Of Benin (UNIBEN) in the year 2005, just over a year after I sat for my SSCE. Back then I came in with an air of confidence in my capabilities. It was like an aura radiating all over me. I guess the same was true for a lot of people as well. This confidence was justified because of the way I ended my secondary school days. I wrote my SSCE in the same government school I attended for six good years. That same year I sat for the GCE. I did very well in both exams. The following year I took the ultimate test –JAMB! I also did well in this exam too. All in all, I ended my Secondary school days exceptionally well.
While many of us who did well were looking forward to getting admitted directly into the university, we were hit by the ultimate warrior test –POST UME. It all started with my set. But for those who eventually gained admission through this new selection process we came to understand lately that it has done us more harm than good to have been admitted thus.
Throughout my school days I lived in the hostel. In my first year I had four roommates (there were a minimum of eight students in a room) who studied like subjects as me – we were all up-bunkers, freshers, back then, just as you are now. For our purpose here I would address them as my comrades. And most of us had so many friends who took the General Studies course (GST). It was a very fortunate thing for us.
I remember someday, in my first semester, when a comrade of mine took it upon himself to bombard another of my comrade with questions on GST111. This guy failed so many of the questions – he scored less than 30%, which, though is a pass mark by Jesus’ standard, is a failure by UNIBEN standard. And guess what? That night he went to class with his textbook, and two days later he scored about 85% on another test. You can tell the rest of the story when it was exam time. You freshers can work it out when you start counting your ‘A’s. I apologize once again for caller you freshers, if you do not like it, and I would ask your permission to address you so a few more times. But, please, read on.
When the results of my very first exams in Uniben were released there was an ‘A rush.’ It was all over the place, it was even on the papers. The school took the glory for this performance, because no student’s name was ever published as being the ones who had conceived the idea of the post-UME. It was all about the school authorities and their ingenuity in initiating such a process. We got the ‘A’s, but the school got the ‘A+’ (applause). And this would come to haunt us, and we shall see some seeming injustice derived from a process that started out being just. But we all know that with delivery comes a harder task.
My second semester was the first of these tasks. ‘Dem too pass ooo’ seemed to be the thought in the mind of the faculties. ‘But we know wetin we go do. Load and reload and recharge and bombard and, maybe, frustrate them’. Those of us who remember well can tell the story of CHM122. O boy, that exam no be here oo. We were allotted a shorter time (30 minutes less) than the preceding set and the questions, taken together, were more difficult than all we have ever come across in past examination question papers. It was a hundred (100) chemistry calculations; Acid/Base calculations, concentration of solution, etc in two-and-a-half hours. Luckily I was able to C that paper through. ‘We too know book sef, na im become problem for us.’
From my year two (2) onward the task became more difficult. First, when I returned to resume my year two I lived in a room where there was only one other person in my category of returning student, aside from the freshers and the finalists. The most unfortunate part of the story was that the guy was not in my faculty – we were very far apart. But we did exchange pleasantries, and took nothing personally, where I think we ought to. We felt so much at ease to our own detriment, because we never knew we needed to worry. So, every time I want to see a person who studied something similar I had to step out, even if it was to the next room and we know how uneasy it usually is to go out – except, maybe, I want to talk about the Mikel Obi and Yaya Toure supposed robbery. Each time I returned, I perceived that I had lost something, but I could not quite figure out what it was. But I would still pass the night peacefully.
I dressed up and went to class every morning. While in class I either took so many boring notes because the subject was mostly unfamiliar and abstract or I talked and disturbed when there was no lecturer in class. Do all these things profit me? How would I know then? And at the end of the day I got so exhausted that I had to run to my room to have some sleep. But I looked forward to the night classes. I just buried my head in the books. I read and understood and told myself I was ready for the exams. I continued this routine for the whole semester. I put in every effort; I can swear to that, but I don’t think I need to.
The exams came. I laid my hands on some past question papers and tried to do something. I went in and wrote as I could. But when the results came out I found that my rewards seem not to be proportional to my effort. ‘Maybe I no write well,’ I thought. So I promised myself that next time I would write very well. But the results of the second semester seem to be no better than that of the first semester. I would have lost heart if there were one more semester. This is how GP took its first fall before I was sent home on a loooooooong break.
I returned for my year three (3) with a renewed sense of commitment and by this time all the effects of the previous semester had waned. But things were essentially the same. Nothing fundamental changed. Nothing happened with the power to uplift a falling GP. It was even more difficult to find people who studied something similar, especially because it was difficult to get a place to stay in the hostel and everyone seemed to be more concerned about privacy. But it was time to begin anew. There was a new semester resolution, just like the new year resolutions. I put in more effort, since this session’s result contributed more to my GP than all the past ones. The performance dropped slightly still in this session. But it was still the same routine of attend classes, sleep in the daytime, go to class at night and then go into the hall. And because it was a general phenomenon, I consoled myself with thoughts like ‘these lecturers too wicked.’ Slowly but surely I was unconsciously losing my zeal for that night class stuff. Candle-burning and results just do not seem to add up to make the whole I would like to see. This marked the third fall of GP
When I returned from the short break, I did give myself some break. The night classes were limited. I began to think more about why the night class and result do not correlate. It is this whole thinking process that has given birth to what you are reading now. It was not a very easy process. It was difficult and long. The whole process started unconsciously and gradually took shape into the form you now see.
One of my greatest undoing was that I never saw these things in the way in which I paint them now. But my joy also is that, at least somebody eventually will take a look at this beautiful picture, then this person will tell another person who will tell another person who will tell some other person until every other person will know about it and hopefully, do something about it for his/her own good.
To return to our story: The whole process continued so much the same into my fourth year. I spent six months of the fourth year doing Industrial Training. We were almost at the end of our first semester exams when we were sent home on a strike action lasting eight long months. But particularly interesting was the fact that we came back to school after about four months into thethe strike for a period of two weeks. This was to enable us write the last two papers of our first semester exams. After the exams the strike continued. Imaging just how much this anomaly would contribute to the GP’s fourth fall.
I only wished I had immediately started learning clothes-making rather than perpetuating the mistake of running around looking for a company to do an Industrial Training of which the school cares nothing about.
It is when I got to the fifth and final year that I started to hear the phrase GP must rise again. At this time everybody was struggling to make sure they get as good a result as possible. At this time I was always in a hurry to leave class, especially since the higher your go the duller the classes seem to become. I lived with the certain conviction that class time and good grades were not in direct proportion. In fact the relationship seems to be an inverted one. But to be on the safer side I took the least-works approach. I went to classes only on select days of the week but never remained beyond 12.00 noon; I struggled to complete assignments; I studied only about two weeks to the exams. I lost all zeal for study. I never stepped out at night to go to class.
I remember a friend of mine who was in his fourth year in the same department walking up to me one day and saying, ‘Chidi, I dey petroleum engineering for four years now, but if you ask me to talk about petroleum I no know wetin I go talk.’ My simple reply to him was, ‘O boy no be only you one o.’
The rest of my time during my final year I spent doing my project work. For your information, my project was very simple and straightforward. Just read what others have written and make something out of it. No experiments; no supervision. Luckily I had something concrete to take out of my IT period – it was rapid typing on the computer keyboard. Aside from that, everything else I ever needed was on the internet, supplied by people whose job it was to perform the experiments, and report to me whose duty it was to review their work. But eventually I completed my project. I was the researcher, typist, editor, supervisor and defender of the project. What an accomplishment.
Then came the results of the final year. GP did rise a bit for those who were most in need of it but nothing magical could happen if the first four years have not been well utilized. As for me I did not know if my GP rose or fell with the final year exams. I never had the consciousness of maximizing GP. I had a no-goals approach as far as the GP was concerned. All I cared about was to do the best I could. I only ever got to know the exact figure of my GP at the time I was processing my transcripts.
I do my best to reflect on my journey through here; through this university. When I left secondary school and came into the university, I was greeted with a very good but misunderstood notion. I stumbled upon freedom – freedom to do what I like, as I like it and when I like to. But with the passage of time I came to understand that not everything is as it seems. I came to see, years later, that every bad still attracts a stroke of the cane, though it doesn’t go straight on my bombom – and that’s what makes it worse. Instead the accumulated bads show up years later on that much coveted figure which we call GP.
I cannot say exactly that this is when this or that happened. All I can tell is that at a time I had to look back at those golden old days of my secondary school. Then we were a family of learners. We did copy notes every other day, but we also played to exhaustion. We had plenty of soul food – laughter. There were also plenty of quarrels, which were usually settled in the football field. There was no hurry to leave school for home. We felt at home doing our school work together. We usually tackled problems together. And everybody made an input and got an output as well. In sum, there was never a dull moment with the stars which we all were. Never in the history of mankind has a single star, shining alone, beautified the night.
My year one was pretty similar. A constellation of stars beautifying one another’s night. It was a study group we all unconsciously belonged to since we had something to share. We passed the GSTs very well not because questions were repeated, rather, it was because we were able to tackle those past questions together and we were inspired to study the course so we can make an input whenever others gathered together to work it out. And this was easier because it was in the convenience of our rooms. We could, and actually did, shout across corners. We had the largest number in every room – half the capacity.
But from my year two things changed dramatically. Jesus puts it so well, ‘@I will smite the shepherd and the sheep will be scattered.’ We were kept apart, maostly unconsciously, and we made little or no effort to come together, since we were all on a high after the first year. We labelled ourselves scholars. We all went into our shell just to be true to the label. The most unfortunate thing is that we usually do not see these things coming. And on and on it goes till most of us are done for.
I sincerely hope that my lamentations would not be interpreted as the cries of a man who has failed at his books. But I do not live to proof everything to every man. I am firmly convinced that he who knows himself to be profound endeavors to be simple. But it is my wish that out of my cries laughter may come to others and that from my mistakes others may take correction and stifle the fall, not so much of GP, but of intellectual excellence.


THE ENEMY WITHIN

Oftentimes I wonder if it is just me alone that see the deception in all of these sham disguised as prayer in contemporary Nigerian churches. Or perhaps others who see it just decide to turn a blind eye and persist in it anyway because it numbs the pain of reality.
It has almost become a virtue for the average Nigerian Christian to look for the enemy within. After all it was Jesus who said that a man’s enemy would be those of his own household. But the Nigerian Christian has his/her particular understanding of enmity.
First of all we have to acknowledge the fact that the average Nigerian today is weighed down by economic hardship, with over 80% of  the population living in this category. The next minutes’ meal is never guaranteed. And I seriously mean it. Now if something as basic as a meal isn’t guaranteed, then, what else would. Thus the first prayer of the average Nigerian Christian is: give us this day our daily bread, and every other good things of life. The Nigerian Christian wants every other things to be added, first, before seeking the kingdom of God. Not to mention the fact that this Christian has been promised that he/she will inherit the land – even though just where this land is located remains largely a question to be resolved.
Thus it would not be a surprise for one to hear an economically-weighed-down Christian praying for the dethronement of every throne of witchcraft in his/her father’s house; or for his/her enemy to be fried; or for the old woman monitoring his/her life to die.
Thus instead of seeing the true enemy and recognizing where they really are – the nation’s capital, Abuja – they have turned against one another; against an equally impoverished Nigerian like them.


DAY OF ATONEMENT
		It is possible for man to escape punishment for his sins; to reap what he has not sown. One can certainly  reap what he has not sown, as well as where he did not sow.
For all of us Christians, “the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life.” The thief on the cross is a case in point.  But someone may insist that his crucifixion is a punishment. True he was being punished by men for his sins against men. But what about the person beside him? What did he do?
For punishment to be truly just it has to be commensurate with the evil done. Which means that whatever a man sows, he shall reap. Man cannot avoid reaping what he has sown. But the problem I have with the people of my nation is that they want to see men reap all the fruits of their labour, especially the bad ones. They want to be a first-hand witness of the harvest, and even wish to be part of it.
All men must make atonement for their sins. This, I concede to be the ultimate reality. Persistent evildoers must make atonement, as must repentant ones. But the problem remains that most people of my nation want to see the punishment of so-called evildoers, persistent or repentant. Some people even want to be a part of the punishment committee, forgetting that “the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God”
Babies are murdered daily, and the children of the unrighteous keep on gathering wealth. The prophet Jeremiah was baffled by this seeming injustice that he asked God, “Wherefore doth the way of the wicked prosper? Wherefore are all they happy that deal very treacherously?” Jeremiah 12:1. Yet many people I know still tell me that the children of the righteous will inherit the wealth of the unrighteous. To these people I say, “Truly in vain is salvation hoped for from the hill and from the multitude of the mountains, [but] truly in the lord our God is the salvation of Israel.” Jeremiah 3:23.
They say that the unrighteous has robbed them, and so they fold their arms and wait for the so–called inheritance. Even if these people die in their unrighteousness their wealth would most likely pass on to unrighteous people. But they will have to go answer for their actions. But many people want to see the Robin Hood kind of story in which the rich oppressor would suddenly become poor and the poor would magically become rich.
But I insist that only in and with God can atonement be made: either here below or yonder above. He that is lucky enough to make his atonement here would do so at the pain of letting go of all that he has been so strongly attached to. But he that is unlucky would have to make atonement yonder, still by a fire. The former fire goes out with time, but the latter may be for eternity.


IF FORGIVENESS …
		If forgiveness were not near to us, we would not have it to keep;
If it were not dear to us, we would not hold on to it so firmly;
And unless we could give it, it would really not be ours.
And as long as one is in this world, one cannot afford to forget after forgiving. One ought to remember, and also to remember that one has forgiven. By so doing, each occasion of remembrance becomes an occasion of renewed goodness of heart. But one must forget when one senses the approach of eternity.
Chidi Orji


IMA MMADU
		This time I have decided to go local. NO big grammar like those you’ll find here uttered by our wise politicians.
The phrase ima mmadu is from the Igbo language (my mother tongue) and translates most literally as to know somebody. My story will bring you up to speed about that in a moment.
Sometime around 2009 I went to the office of one of the multinational oil companies in Lagos (I lived and schooled in Benin City) to apply for a six-month industrial training programmed which is a requirement for my undergraduate degree program in petroleum engineering.
I submitted my well-prepared application which was stamped by the University of Benin. The application was well received. I was then told to go and wait for a call or a text message which will come in about two weeks’ time. That I will be instructed on how to proceed further. Supposedly I will be told the date of the date for the screening/interview/examination or whatever. (I’m still waiting for the message anyway).
I waited for about a month without hearing from them. I then called a friend of mine who lives in Lagos and who also applied just like me. He gave me the news! All applications must be accompanied by a guarantor’s letter from a staff of the company somewhere inside or outside the nation for it to be considered. To make matters worse, not all staff could act as guarantors. A retailer at a retail station could not be one’s guarantor. It must be a staff of high ranking such as managers, directors and up and upp and uppp and upppp…. .with as many ‘p’ as possible along the food chain or oil chain or pipeline if you like.
What they are guaranteeing against from an undergraduate like me continues to baffle me till this day. Well, I think maybe in view of the situation of things in the country one has got to defend oneself against the anger of those Niger delta people, I suppose. If it were me, what would I do, seeing I have provoked them for so long ?
So, to get a job, you have to know somebody. It is a law of the land; it is a way of life. To accept the fact is the true beginning of wisdom for the graduate and undergraduate alike.
So if as a foreigner you ever find time to come to Nigeria in your lifetime, you may like to show off by letting your colleagues know that you know the meaning of ima mmadu, and they’ll be proud of you.


IF . . . AGE OLD WISDOM

If you can keep your head when all about you are losing theirs and blaming it on you,
If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you but make allowance for their doubting too,
If you can wait and not be tired by waiting, or being lied about, don’t deal in lies, or being hated, don’t give way to hating, and yet don’t look too good, nor talk too wise:
If you can dream–and not make dreams your master,
If you can think–and not make thoughts your aim;
If you can meet with Triumph and Disaster and treat those two impostors just the same;
If you can bear to hear the truth you’ve spoken twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools, or watch the things you gave your life to, broken, and stoop and build ’em up with worn-out tools:
If you can make one heap of all your winnings and risk it all on one turn of pitch-and-toss, and lose, and start again at your beginnings and never breath a word about your loss;
If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew to serve your turn long after they are gone, and so hold on when there is nothing in you except the Will which says to them: “Hold on!”
If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue, or walk with kings–nor lose the common touch,
If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you;
If all men count with you, but none too much,
If you can fill the unforgiving minute with sixty seconds’ worth of distance run,
Yours is the Earth and everything that’s in it,
And–which is more–you’ll be a Man, my son!


RICE SO SWEET. . . AN ACT SO BAD
		Sometimes I wonder if we just decide to do some ‘bad’ things or that we are motivated by something known only to us or unknown to us.
Sometime ago I was at a church in Lagos. On this particular day the legionaries of Mary organised a get together to mark the birth of the Blessed Virgin Mary. All were invited.
When it was time for item 7 – refreshment – everyone was instructed to collect only a plate of rice, so that none will be left out.
But there was this boy of about 11 years who played smart and succeeded in securing two plates for himself. “He is just a child and its necessary that he learns how to be smart.” So I thought. I never knew that someone else was watching.
As the young man settled to punish the second plate as he did the first, this other guy came closer. He asked this little boy to put down the plate of food, threatening to report him to the servers if he did not. He then asked the boy why he decided to cheat, to which the little boy promptly answered that he had not had anything to eat since the morning (it was now about 4.00pm). But this other guy became more firm, adding many more questions and threats. At this point this younger mind caved in and admitted to have had buns only. “This is no meal for any time of the day,” I thought, “no matter the quantity he may have had.”
To my utter amazement this other guy who had already taken a plate of food opened the plate he collected from this other guy and started eating the food! This guy should be at least 25 years old if I’m not mistaken. His countenance shows he was much older than me who was only approaching 24 years of age at that time.
I was amazed and a little stunned, though. But I quickly intervened and was able to convince this guy to return the food, though he had downloaded over 50 per cent of the riceware. “This is stealing”, I thought, though I never told him that. Maybe I was afraid, no doubt. By this time the young boy was already in tears. I guessed his tears were not because he has lost his plate of food. It must have been because another person would have to reap the fruit of his labour.
For this guy I never can tell if he just decided to do the ‘bad’ or that he was truly hungry. Perhaps he was more hungry than the boy who claimed he hasn’t eaten since the morning of that day. Was this older guy not aware that he was in the House of God? I guess I’ll never find out.
A short time later this older guy came to thank me for sitting close to him. But why would someone thank some other person for sitting close to him? Maybe he was decoding something. Could it be that he had come to his senses, but was unable to open up to me that he actually lost his guard? Every person in my shoes would have decoded some message from this guy’s ‘vote of thanks.’ I actually have mine. You think about yours, and most of all, think about stealing in its many forms and make some real effort to avoid it, no matter how sweet the rice tastes.


WORDS OF WISDOM…FROM THE MOUTH OF F**LS

Nigeria is one of the few nations blessed with many good things. But unfortunately it also has gotten its own share of bad. But the most sorry story is the fact that the bad shines forth and the good has yet found a way to comprehend it. For those of us who are not Nigerians I will try as much as I can to put the quotes below in context.
The quote is formatted in italics, followed by a dash (-), then the name of the person who is reported to have uttered it and his office separated by a comma. Then comes the context after the full stop. i.e
quote – name, office. Context.


Nigerians don’t panic, terrorist attack is everywhere. Maybe it’s our turn – Goodluck Jonathan, President. He was giving a speech after a bombing by the Boko Haram sect.

Foreign investors should ignore Boko Haram and invest in Nigeria – Goodluck Jonathan, President.

Job security is for instance when you are performing on stage and mopol guiding you – Goodluck Jonathan, President. He was actually trying to explain the phrase “job security” to a Nigerian musician named Dbanj. When you hear ‘Mopol,’ just think ‘army’

I can see camera people, are they going to televise us alive? – Dame Jonathan, First lady. She was at an event

I want to commend the doctors and nurses for responding to treatment – Dame Jonathan, First lady. She really meant to thank them for responding to the needs of patients

Though Ojukwu is gone his manhood lives forever – Dame Jonathan, First lady. I wonder what she wants with a dead man’s manhood. I think she meant the legacy he leaves behind him.

I will rather kill myself than commit suicide – Dame Jonathan, First lady. Still on the issue of bombing in Nigeria

On behalf of 20 million naira, I donate my family – Dame Jonathan, First lady. She meant to donate 20 million Naira on behalf of her family.

I so proud of ebele for name unilag mko univercity – Dame Jonathan, First lady. She tweeted this to congratulate her husband for renaming a university as part of the celebration of democracy day.

Even Jesus Christ cannot conduct a free and fair election in Nigeria – Olusegun Obasanjo, former President. He was responding to questions about election fraud

The worth of a child born and breed in Nigeria cannot be compared to that in the United States – Yakubu Gowon.

We want to thank the president for bringing Facebook to Nigeria – Labaran Maku, Information Minister. I think he probably meant internet service or something.

I founded this school for the masses and the school fees is N850,000 ($5205.40) – Atiku Abubakar, former Vice President. The nation’s minimum monthly wage is N18,000 ($110.12) and the many graduates are earning less than that. But you need to feed on about N600 ($1.84) daily if at all you care to stay alive.

You press men, you always say there are no minerals in Kano. We have Coca Cola, Fanta, Mirinda and the newly invented Sprite – Bakin Zuwo (RIP). He was suppose to talk about natural resources.

I will water your school and fire your school – Orji Uzoh Kalu

..until I see someone eating out of the gutters before I believe there is poverty in Nigeria. – Umaru Dikko, former transportation minister

Telephone is not meant for the poor – David Mark, senate president. Whereas Nokia’s mission was to put a phone in every pocket

School is not meant for the poor only for the rich – Ikedi Ikiri Ohakim

At 50, Britain is still battling with King Arthur and the knights of the round table so Nigeria is not doing too badly – Diezeani Madueke, former transportation minister. Please if anyone knows what Britain was like at 50, please comment below and let me see if this woman attended her history classes.

The corps members were destined to die, nobody can run away from destiny – Mallam Isa Yaguda, Gov Bauchi State. Commenting on the killing of some corps members in the state

We, the PDP did not win this election, I have gone to church to confess, I gave them money and they called the result – Chris Uba

The United States has a lot to learn from us when it comes to election, they need to learn how to conduct a presidential election in a day – Maurice Iwu, Former INEC president

The website of the NSCDC is ww dot nscdc. That’s all – Obafaiye Shem, Lagos state commandant, Civil defense corps. He was in an interview and he was asked to tell the website of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corps. The full interview is on YouTube. Just skip to 05:55 and listen for 10 seconds.

It is a dividend of democracy that my administration brought Mr Biggs in Owerri – Achike Udenwa, former Governor of Imo state. Mr Biggs is a fast-food outlet just like McDonalds



Please don’t forget to comment and add more if you find any because these people actually act like they mean all these things.


. . . SMILING ALL THE WAY
		The earth spins and revolves. The sun, the moon, the stars, our galaxy all move at tremendous speed even though we do not feel a pinch of it. In a word we may say that the world turns with the qualification that every form of movement is a turning.
But when men are troubled the world seems to turn over on them – they worry.
When I see others worry I counsel first like the master by saying, “worry has no potential of changing things for the better.” Thus he challenges us with this question: “Who can add a cubit to his stature by worrying?”
Counselling thus should be no difficult task for me.
But I soon find myself worrying over life’s same troubles. Then I become the one receiving counsel. I then ask myself, “Why should you worry? “At this point I try to smile, not because things have suddenly gotten better, but because I find myself not practising what I preach. It all turns out to be fun looking back at myself, and I smile the more.
It happens to all of us who are daily faced with troubles and grievances. The troubles of the poor, as they largely assume, is lack of money. But they can be rest assured that the rich also cry. “Why hast thon forsaken me?” lamented the master. It’s all a part of what makes humans human. At these times when we feel that the body and soul are at the point of parting it is all in our nature to worry, for it was not in the original design of things.
So sit back, enjoy the fun; smile, for the world is not turning over on you. Nature must sometimes be given way, but keep in mind that a sign of relief always come, but lastly. Hear the master shout out his cry of relief, ”it is finished”.
We should thus strive to exhaust grief, not the other way round. The days tell us to GO. Get Over whatever seems to take your soul away, get over it for the better.
Keep a smile handy . . . you just may need it more than your brother.


I STILL LOVE THE CHURCH……REALLY???
		Much a-thought about something beautiful
Culture Monk


by Kenneth Justice

~Okay, so we all know that Christianity throughout the Western World pretty much sucks.

–) Pastors and Priests look and act more like business CEO’s than people whose lives have been dedicated to serving humanity

–) The church, which in the Medieval Ages was on the frontline of healthcare for the poor and the helpless, now spends more of its time planning irrelevant meetings and taking care of their church building(s) which are colossal wastes of space since they sit empty for the majority of the week.

–) Sex before marriage occurs more often among ‘churched’ teens than among un-churched

–) Hotels sell the most porn videos during youth pastor conferences

–) Greater depths of community appear to exist more often at the local pub or cafe than they do in the confines of church fellowship

We could probably sit here for hours and talk about the…
View original post 662 more words

BECOME A MIRACLE
		Miracles do happen. Sometimes they make us rejoice and empower us. Other times they happen to confound and to disappoint us, depending on which side we’re on.
Imagine that today is your birthday (or some special day for you). Your friends and loved ones are handing their gifts and you’re happily receiving them.
Later in the day, you’re walking along the road and some strange face, out of nowhere, walks up to you, hands you a wrapped box, says ‘happy birthday’, and just walks away.
I guess your first reactions would almost certainly take the form of questions. You may actually stand fixated for a while as your go over a million questions in your mind of minds. Why was that? Who was that? What’s in here? Hope this is not a parcelled bomb, you may ask, especially if you live in the Northern part of Nigeria.
You find that on this special day of yours you received some gifts which you interpreted as a sign of love. But there was this one which was a question for you.
We’ve just tried to capture a screenshot of what a miracle means for the believer and the unbeliever respectively. For the believer, a miracle is a sign; for the unbeliever, it is a question encountered along the way. At the sight of a miracle a believer affirms, yes! this is a sign from my God; but the unbeliever asks, what does this inexplicable event mean?
To be sure, a miracle has to be an extraordinary and rare event or there would be nothing special or miraculous about it. Think about the miracle of sleeping and waking up. It is so common among both man and animals that it is not even thought of. It is neither extraordinary, nor rare. But what event can we look at and call a miracle, especially in our day and age? How can we recognize one when we see it?
In the Gospels Jesus healed leprosy and it was considered a miracle. But today any standard hospital can treat leprosy effectively. In another place He multiplied loaves. But I really think that someday the science of bits and atoms would give us a device that can make plantain chips from the air molecules surrounding it. A time will come when lameness, deafness and dumbness would have standard medical treatments, even though it took a miracle for Jesus to cure them. So when the medical bureau at Lourdes (made up of believing and unbelieving doctors) declares that a particular cure cannot be explained by the present state of medical technology, it does not mean such a cure will not be readily available in the near future. A miraculous cure for HIV/AIDS might happen today, but I’m sure that soon any standard medical centre would be able to treat the virus as effectively as a miracle will do. Science thus seems set to conquer and to replicate everything we may term a miracle, leading to the present faith in technology (which mission can be summarized thus: better solutions) which is gaining converts more than any religion of today. But even technology itself holds it as a dogma that there will always be problems to solve.
But Christians of today limit the problems of man to the physical, thus associating miracles exclusively with the physical. This is in spite of the fact that we claim to worship a spiritual God who is more interested in the spiritual welfare of the person – the body rather than the clothes; the life rather than the food. We often do not see that in today’s strongly Darwinian world where culture is red in tooth and claw that a smile at someone whose car just splashed water on your $2, 120 Versace t-shirt will trigger over 2,500 questions. We often do not appreciate the ramifications of a genuine smile unlike that seen on red carpet nights, as a rare free good. We all too easily concur with the keepers of this global jungle that everything can, and should be replaced with its digital equivalent, thus commanding some price in dollars.
We often do not see that the sphere of the extraordinary has shifted into the realm of the spiritual — not so much because science has conquered the physical as because man has conquered, and more still transcends, science and its limitations to the physical.
We often do not see that an act of forgiveness freely given can be a question for the unbeliever in today’s retribution culture.
We often fail to see that returning a lost Galaxy Note 3 can be a question for the unbeliever in today’s grab it now culture.
We often fail to ask how we can be a sign today, posing a question to those among whom we live. We fail to be living testimonies to the Lord’s goodness by becoming miracles in time.


ISOLATION AND THE MYTH OF THE STRONG BLACK WOMAN
		The African Woman is strong, but she is also fragile
Mind of Malaka
*There are some people – an exceptional few – who are paragons of emotional stoicism. These people have all the emotive sensibilities of a fragment of driftwood. This post is not about you. It’s about the rest of us.  Just FYI…

Strong.

Black.

Woman.

What comes to mind when you hear these words? Close your eyes… or not; really think about it. Perhaps an image of a woman at the bus stop with all her plastic grocery bags arrayed around like a field of rotting posies her pops into your consciousness. Perhaps it might be a powerful woman in a pencil skirt and lab coat barking out orders. Is she the nameless janitor that cleans your building every night? Whoever she is, I’d wager 99% of you have imagined her alone. Not supported by family; not surrounded by friends; just strong – and ALONE. And you would be right.

I…
View original post 1,361 more words

WORDPRESS.COM NEWS AND NUMBERS: THE AUGUST 2013 HOT LIST
		 The WordPress.com Blog
Recently, Michelle offered a snapshot of WordPress.com activity in July. The verdict? You’re all busy bees and publish a lot. We’re proud of our community’s accomplishments this past month, too — August certainly sizzled. Here’s a glimpse at what’s been in the works at WordPress.com, through news and numbers.

You’re in the spotlight.

A number of you are TEDTalk alums, and we were glad to see The Economist‘s digital editor and WordPress.com blogger Tom Standage give a TedxOxbridge talk in England on lessons from ancient social media, from his forthcoming book Writing on the Wall: Social Media — The First 2,000 Years, which you can read about on his blog.

Another WordPresser, Ann Morgan, had a stellar August. In 2012, she read her way around the globe’s 196 independent countries, chronicling her literary adventure on her blog, A Year of Reading the World.

A feature…
View original post 794 more words

RELIGION NA POLITICS
		Fela Kuti of blessed memory once said, “Religion na Politics.”
A lot of religious people like myself may refute this statement. But I would agree with him based on the following reflections on the subject.
Religion is concerned with how to live with people, fellow human beings, because they are stamped with the IMAGO DEI – the image of God. Politics on the other hand is concerned with how to deal with people, because they are naturally greedy (the foundation of Capitalism) and rebellious (the doom of Socialism).
We all play politics whenever we try to win friends and influence people. We all live religion as well whenever we try to win friends and influence people. Thus a political campaign is not so different from a sermon on the mount. Just as faith comes by hearing so does votes come by hearing also.
In the family, a father lives religion whenever he sits down to have a conversation with his child. The same father plays politics whenever he gives the child orders and scolds the child for wrong-doing. Religious leaders give orders and scolds for wrong-doing as much as Political leaders engage in conversations. Both are efforts directed towards influencing the child and to make the child a friend. The same holds true for the mother and every other person the child comes in contact with. And this doesn’t hold in family alone. It is part of the fabric of which our daily life is woven.
In the social sphere, Politicians call friends party members; but in Religion friends are addressed as brethren. In Politics, the general populace is addressed as the masses;  in religion they are a chosen race.
But a friend is a friend is a friend, whether he helps when one needs to kill or when one needs to save. Provided he is there at a time of need and at a time of deed.
So, if you can live with a people, then, you have successfully dealt with them. Conversely, if you can deal with a people, then, you have successfully lived with them.
But the error comes when one forsakes either of politics or religion in the pursuit of the other. Hence we must live with men and we must deal with men. But are necessary because the splendour of the IMAGO DEI and the darkness of the rebellious and avaricious nature of man manifests with almost equal intensity.
In this light, therefore, Religion na Politics.


HUMAN RIGHTS: PORNOGRAPHY, AND DRUGS
		The way I see it, socialism and capitalism, improperly run, differ only in the measure of the distribution of the opportunity to exhibit the human problem of greed. In Socialism only a few spent well and off. Because even if you are spending for the state there is a certain satisfaction that goes with being the boss and giving the specifications, and placing the orders. But in Capitalism all are invited. It’s like saying, “if we would be greedy, then, let us be greedy justly”. For if Socialism affirms, “two legs better,” Capitalism confesses, “four legs good.”
But I am yet to understand why there is this present divide in the upholding of Human Rights as it relates to the pornographic and the drug industries.
The Opium farms of poor Afghan farmers are being destroyed but a blind eye is being turned on the  porn industry. Somebody with guns and bombs deny one man the right to use a natural substance, but care nothing about restraining the men who use human beings. But between the body and the plant which is of more value? Which should be more revered or most lightly abused? Puppies are being fought with guns and bombs, but almost no one would throw a stone at the dogs. Well, maybe we’re all enjoying the porn and having a good time. Or maybe the porn guys happen to be rich investors, from some powerful neighbourhood.
It is a common-sense observation that the weeds make men insane, for a moment. But we all know that the few seconds of perversion drive men mad, destroyed homes, and has rendered unnecessarily orphaned many children.
The big dogs are allowed to roam freely, but the puppies – labelled wolves – are fought ferociously and restrained. The chains have been removed from the dogs and the puppies now wear them. Clearly someone is being given preferential treatment. The worse side at that.
But of a truth, I really think it’s time for drug dealers and users to start making a case for the Human Right to use a natural substance; for the right to make these natural substances as commonplace as porn.
So if you say that these natural substances are bad, then, you must include the unnatural pornographic industry and take it down. For if we want to destroy society or be immoral, then, let us be justly immoral. Let us once more, as in the case of the present economic system, cooperate in destruction. Let us demonstrate our human prowess once more. Let all be victors and victims alike. All would destroy and all would suffer not some destroying and all suffering.
Now that’s justice!


NOT WORTHY, NEITHER READY
		Today I like to talk about one of my many experiences of my faith.
“Holy Communion is only for baptised and practising Catholics who are disposed, or are in a state of grace. If you are none of these please remain in your seat and pray for God’s blessings.” These are the exact words (or some variation of it) I often hear every other Sundays at Mass when it’s time for Holy Communion.
I fully understand what these words mean, and so does every other person sitting in one of those pews. But there really is something I think should not be in that statement, or something missing from it. Either way may serve the purpose of my consideration.
First is the use of the word ‘only’. Not as if it is not proper to say that it is meant for the onlys here described, but I think it carries a negative connotation of being for just a select few.
The second is that we are told to remain in our seats and pray for God’s blessings. Why would I remain in my seat and pray for God’s blessing when I do not even prepare myself to receive of that which he is here presenting to me? Except, perhaps, by these words you mean that I should pray for God to help me to be ready to receive him next time. I cannot afford to ask him of any more blessings if I would not reach out to receive his greatest blessings – a gift than grace, though refined by flesh and blood. For even though it should be at my own peril to be asking of lower gifts from him, God himself must frown at such folly.
On this particular Sunday I was at mass. When it was time for Holy Communion I bowed my head in prayer as instructed by the announcer, since I was not ready to receive. While in this position (I doubt if I even prayed at all) a thought occurred to me: “Lord I am not worthy to receive you, but even when you invite me nonetheless I find that I am not ready. You are here waiting for me but I would not come to you.”
I know very well how to prepare myself to receive of you: To be in a state of grace, being already a baptised Catholic. But then how do I (or the church) define the ‘state of grace’ for members of the church? I do lay claim to an exhaustive understanding of that phrase. I did not do any formal research (a peculiar problem of Catholics) into that but I speak from what I reasonably think it to be following my many years of experience. But I think it would make things a lot clearer if I should ask whether a non-Catholic can be in a state of grace, whether or not the situation pertains to the reception of Holy Communion.
What if I haven’t practiced for long, and have just received the sacrament of reconciliation and coming to Sunday mass for the first time? Would I still be eligible to receive? Would I qualify to be considered a practicing Catholic? Or what if I am the type that attends mass every other month but make sure to go for confession before I do so? Will I still be practicing–i.e. if the priest is at freedom to choose to give me communion or not, will he deem it fit for him to give it to me? Whatever the case may be with the questions, I see no reason why I should comfortably seated asking for God’s blessings, when I should be praying for mercy at my not being ready to receive him, even when he so desires that I do so?
It must be realized that it is mainly on our part that the impediment to reception of Holy Communion lies; That Jesus has given the invitation and it is left for us to receive it or not. We the people of God must realize that it is our part which remains to be fulfilled, and it is a serious issue to not comply. And what should the people do who are not ready to receive; what should the uncaring baptised as well as the unbaptized and newcomers do? Well, we should get ourselves ready to receive him… we must go for confession, do our penance, and so presently be free from mortal sin. Then we can come to him since “holy communion is for all those who are ready to receive Jesus in the Eucharist.” This is how I strive to live my Sunday life. What about you?


ALUU COMMUNITY MASSACRE: 10 MONTHS AFTER
		May the souls of our departed countrymen, Ugonna, Lloyd, Tekana, and Chidiaka rest in peace
It is now 10 months since the morning of Friday, 5th October, 2012. A morning when four young men, who were students of the University of Port Harcourt, were savagely murdered in Aluu Community, Ikwerre Local Government Area of Rivers State by an angry mob said to consist mainly of community people. Their crime (so it was said): they stole phones and laptops.
It was a fateful and faithful day: fateful for the victims and faithful for the villains. It is a day worth remembering. But who knows for what it could be remembered. Looking at this event and the other terrible things that have happened these past 10 months gets one thinking whether 2012 is not truly upon us.
Almost everyone I have talked to about this murder care only about serving justice to the host community. True, justice must be served. But the problem is what kind of justice the majority of our people want. It has all been, “Aluu should be fried.” They have all called for the Nigerian government to overrun Aluu; to lay the community to waste; to make it desolate. Aluu has even become a curse (incidentally the word in Igbo language means an abomination), a stigma worse than that of colour or of HIV/AIDS.
Many people have lamented the killings. But in their sadness they have allowed salty waters to cover the better part of their eyes. I be think say who dey cry dey see road. Personally, what hit me hard about the killings was the way these young men were killed. It brings to mind that primitive scene in which nature is described as red in tooth and claw. From the descriptions I heard I really wondered if it was human beings who literally devoured fellow humans. Every single person that has watched the video tells me not to watch it. The scene which they all described added up in painting a gory picture. I doubt if tigers could come close to such bizarre acts. It was just like a saw movie come to life. There was this poster I saw on Facebook which said that Aluu had four (4) against Uniport. But in retrospect, Aluu had a bloody ONE against humanity. I really think someone should be called up at The Hague for mob crimes. I would feel ashamed to tell my younger siblings that it was human beings who carried out such brutal act. Ritual killing was nowhere near this. It would have saved me and a lot of other people some headache if those guys were simply shot.
Try to think of it for a second. You are grappling for your dear life, not caring whether it’s been hard, rough, and tough… but without help… for so long a time. I can’t help crying over this thought.
I could recall a similar incident in New Benin Market sometime between the late 1990s and the early 2000s. Stones were continually hurled at a pickpocket who jumped inside a well as he was being pursued by a mob. He died in the same horrible manner. Surprisingly nobody at that time called for the decimation of New Benin Market traders, because many of us believed that it served him well. I wonder why it should be different this time, even when Aluurees found that their actions served the thieves well.
Bad as it may have been, anyone calling for the destruction of Aluu should realize that s/he is not following the right path by not asking some valid questions. There are obviously questions. What motivated the act? Has there been provocation of the host community in the recent past? What sort of justice would be appropriate for the perpetrators of this act? And most importantly, how can we prevent such an ugly incident from repeating itself another day?
This act by the mob was a momentous one. So I find it hard to believe that this is an isolated incident. There may well have been cases of disturbance of the local community whether by students or not. And all this time I would like to believe that the Nigeria police was not yet established. Or was it? By the way, where was the police on this broad day-night? News must have reached someone somewhere. But this someone responded too slowly, too poorly or not at all. Moreover, we should realize that we live in volatile and hard times. Our own government has failed us; morality is being massively eroded; the view that man is just one of the multitudes of the animals is seriously gaining ground. All of these contribute to the great and ever-growing problem of the highly-value but hard-to-get naira, and the accompanying de-valuing of human life. All of these, to some degree contribute to the provocation. Nowadays it is becoming increasingly difficult for one to control his/her anger about any situation. This is because anger is rarely isolated. Pluck one cord here and you set the others vibrating. So the thought of a thief in our midst awakens a whole web of negative feelings towards that thief who has come to steal our precious hard-to-get naira notes.
Many people say that the mob should have handed the boys over to the police. Inasmuch as I am in solidarity with this position I seriously think it would be equivalent to just letting the boys go free. Which is an unlikely position for a mob to take. This is because there are cases where the same person that robbed someone today whom may have been caught and handed over to the police comes back for a return mission a few days later. The police let them go for a few notes hard-to-get naira. If you still are not convinced, I put this simple question to you: would it satisfy you if this case is COMPLETELY left in the hands of the Nigerian Police Force?
Calling for the decimation of Aluu because it carried jungle justice to the extreme is an argument which destroys its own premise: which is that whoever or whatever does wrong should be hanged. This is exactly what the Aluurees did. They hanged the offender in their midst. The fact that it is the federal government that is to hang Aluu, as I see it, doesn’t make it any righter or different from what the Aluurees did. After all the federal government is simply a larger community of Nigerians. And if Nigerians can agree to hang Aluu, then, Aluurees can agree to hang the criminal in her midst. It is that simple.
Again, there are inherent dangers in just hanging Aluu. This may serve as a deterrent to other communities around Nigerian tertiary institutions. But we should realize that as communities are deterred students are strengthened. And I doubt if there is anything like an enlightened/intellectual mob. And we all know too well that in Nigeria, the word “student” is synonymous with trouble. Besides, it makes no sense to deter some and strengthen others. We are all Nigerians, student or not; educated or illiterate.
Some people are contending that these Aluu victims were not thieves. Let us assume that is the case. But who will expect an angry mob to start asking questions when they have somebody to lynch? That is why it is a mob and not a peaceful protest. It does not ask questions. It does not believe in logic and it does not take excuses. It has only one job: lynching. But this time, it was one too horrible.
I guess you may be asking what it is I am driving at. Whether my point is that we should let Aluu go. Whether we should we consign her to the higher government: God? NO! I insist. Aluu must be punished for murder. But we should exercise restraint in both whom we punish and how we punish them. We should not pursue a deterrent measure here. We should rather embrace a reformative approach.
Investigations are to be carried out and the real culprits apprehended and duly punished. But here we come face to face with one of the greatest national barrier ever set up in the history of the world. Who will conduct the investigations? The Nigerian Police; The Nigerian Army; The Nigerian Navy; or even The Nigerian Air force? It has been said that if a police man and an army man went to rob at Aluu that the army man will be caught and the police man will escape. They are smart but not sincere. By now many of us have started having hard feelings about handing the matter over to the police. We start asking ourselves, “Can the police do this job as it should be done?” Here we start having hard-to-express feelings. I know that feeling: It is that WE CANNOT TRUST OUR police with anything, not even with a thief at Aluu. Since our police left our highway robbery has reduced. In Benin, there was an order that nothing remotely related to a motorcycle should run between the hours of 7.00pm and 6. 00am. But before the recent ban, there were commercial motorcycle riders in the streets of Benin City working from 7.00 pm to to 6.00 am, all of whom were police men.
I see only one way out here. If we hand the matter to the police, then, the case is as good as closed, which is what many of us suggested that the Aluu mob should have done. But if we want justice to be served, then, we must do something about our country and its police. And until we are able to TRUST our police, which can only be reached by reformation of the nation, such Aluu (evil) may persist in our land.
Only ten months later and we have COMPLETELY forgotten about the whole incident as if nothing ever happened. What a shocking case of short memory.


OH! NIGERIA: WHERE ARE YOU FROM; WHERE WILL YOU GO?
		“Why would a bank ever be interested in a nation’s past?” This was the question on my mind when I entered for a writing competition organized by a bank sometime in 2010 or thereabout. They asked for a sort of analysis of Nigeria’s past, with a view to proposing a way forward based on the errors of the past. “What was the motive?” But I doubted if it was just an intellectual exercise to see how Nigerian students are faring in their composition.
But almost immediately the answer seemed to surface. Maybe the Bank wants to gather recommendations on how to move Nigeria forward. “But wait o. na today we start to dey see this kind thing? Even if we tell dem the problem dem go gree correct am?” This was the next thought that followed. This means to say that I was suspicious; and justifiably so. Maybe this bank needs some sort of marketing information. A shortsighted view, but a possible view nonetheless. Perhaps somebody mandated them to distribute money to suffering Nigerian students, just like the oil companies are being mandated to award scholarships to Nigerian undergraduates. I also pondered on why it has to be this particular that will put forth such a competition? Why should it be from the private sector? Why not from the public sector? I guess I may never find answers to these questions of mine, but that’s not why we are here. I entered anyway, and I mean to share my thoughts about the matter here as I once did back then.
But why do I write? I’m in for the pay! Nobody who comes to this conclusion will be awfully wrong; but the person would not be superbly right either. But, “what sort of pay do I seek?” And many will answer, the first prize. This answer would sound more ominous if the first prize was announced to include an all expense paid trip to old Trafford (well, I consider myself a Manchester United fan). The point of it all being that we want to run to the houses of others. We don’t want to bear the burden of building our own.
But I write most of all because I feel obligated to put pen to paper to honor the noble request of the wise men that put forward such an exercise, and in so doing positively re-affirm to myself the fact that I am still interested in this nation – an interest which I find has been largely lost amongst our people. See everybody running abroad; the society pillars sending their wives abroad to deliver their babies; and their children running abroad to school over there. Moreover I wish also to pour forth the burdens and consolations of my soul concerning this country, in a gesture of complete openness, to at least one person other than the one who searches the deepest recesses of a man’s heart – at least to the person who would read if only the heading of this work.
“If you can look at history and not make history your aim…” This line paraphrases Rudyard Kipling in his poem If. To be sure, this work is not a historical analysis of past events of government official and their actions, a history which I hardly know anything about (neither am I so much interested in it) since I and a great majority of Nigerians are often short of facts about who proposed and who disposed. Going about things the archaeological way of digging and burying and looking for who will go down seem to introduce more problem the way I see it. Nigerians are very good at theories. It is evident in our schools. But when it’s time to put down the pen, our hands lose their grip on the practical aspects of life. I really do think that our situation calls for a reflection, rather than a scholarly analysis of our history. I find that each time I look at the past I get angry and discouraged, and I fear I may unconsciously be conditioned to see the whole system as porous; that I can always get away with anything. So the moment a desire to fault creeps into my mind it works as it wills. After much reflection on the matter at hand, I seriously began to ponder on the requirements of good citizenship. Is it not that bad citizenship is at the heart of all our misfortunes?
Time went by, but the question of citizenship remained in my mind. At one point I began to look around for possible sources of inspiration, for I was convinced that faraway can be brought near at hand in images of elsewhere. At last I began to see the situation through the heart of Daniel, as recorded in a Christian literature we know as the bible. He reflected on the everyday life of his people, where the soul (consciousness) of a person is formed. For as the saying goes, “faithfulness in little will translate to faithfulness in much.” Which is to say that there would be no distinction between little and much, inasmuch as there is faithfulness on either side of the expression. By this analogy I reached the conclusion that there would be no distinction between being the head of a family and being the head of a state provided the soul acknowledges that it is called to lead and to serve, and not to rule –not to lord it over his subjects.
I reason that all of us (even I) claim to be right in our own view of the world; that the world ought to revolve around us, just as it was once thought that the Sun revolved around the Earth. We see ourselves as the standard; authors and finishers of truth. And this situation is worsened when it comes to discussing the problem of our nation. We are all ‘Mr. Rights.
Listen to a hypothetical thought of two national brothers:
Ciroma – “I must tell you the truth, Chukwuma is the cause of all the problems in the Nigeria.”
Chukwuma, replying insistently – “the truth of the matter is that both Adekunle and Ciroma have been posing problems in the house of assembly, and they are even planning to take some of it to the senate house.”
But we will not progress with Ciroma’s truth (and any truth for that matter) if Chukwuma does not corroborate it. It leads us nowhere. If everybody really has the truth of the matter, as we all claim to do, then, everybody is really a problem. But we are the most unfortunate of people since nobody agrees to be at fault. This claim that all of our various pronouncements are right makes me to doubt whether we (all of us) are alright at all.
But what was the approach of Daniel? “We have sinned,” cried Daniel in his reflections on the state of his nation, Israel, which was in exile in Babylon. The situation his people faced is not so different from that which beset Nigeria today. He learnt that his nation was in a place where it ought not to be, much as I learnt that there was a time when the Naira and the now Almighty Dollar rubbed shoulders. What exile could be worse than this self-imposed one? Daniel was quite a good guy, but he never claimed that “they have sinned.”
Look at Daniel, in the quiet of his room, accusing himself of sin, of the evil into which he was born. By this singular confession he completely identified with his people and also affirmed his interest in their welfare. I, too, have sinned. Together with all the other good people of this great nation, I have become a bad man. And I am becoming more so each time my vote is bought with a few Naira notes; I have become a ‘bad citizen’; I have completely gone astray. Each time I fail to turn out to cast my vote on the assumption that my vote doesn’t count I sin more by contributing positively to pouring more concrete to help solidify this assumption, since I do almost nothing about the situation. I sin even most grievously each time I try to thwart the vote of the poor farmer to my advantage. We are all involved in this, and how can anyone claim to be left out?
All Israel [Nigerians] have transgressed thy law [have transgressed the laws of the federation], cried Daniel. We all sin against the nation when we fail to discharge our duties according to the terms specified on our national brochure. We all sin when government official embezzle money meant for the many. The embezzler sins in taking peoples money; the people sin in not breathing a word about it and waiting patiently for their turn to … you know na. We have become dull, and that is the greatest of sins says Jack Parr.
At a time, not so recently, it was said that seven billion naira was proposed for the building of the nation’s vice presidential villa. Many of the ordinary people like me were shouting that this money was too much for such a project. But one of my elder brothers quickly added that it would be better if they used the money for the project, for if we object somebody may just decide to transfer the whole sum to an unregistered account somewhere in Bankiland … and that would be the end of it. And it could just happen without anybody breathing a word. So just like Daniel, I only see children and offspring; and not leaders and led.
Our founding fathers sinned first. It was not just enough to fight for independence; it was most of all their duty to see to it that a good foundation is laid for sustainable development. In Edo state people are happy that the comrade governor is doing a lot of work, but will this work eventually turn out to be just a renovation? I fear we are into a vicious cycle of building-wait-for-the-house-to-fall-then-build-again. Our founding fathers cannot be left out. The Nigeria of today shows that they are part of it all, for we are a product of our beginnings; the children betray the parents. Here is a very recent manifestation of this situation.
Nigerian students are used to the frequent strike action of ASUU (Academic Staff Union of Universities). Oftentimes these faculties are said to have complained that the people whom they taught earn more money than they who taught them. You may think there is sense in this accusation. But wait. Actually these politicians do exactly what they were taught: how to make money. A student spends one year in office as a student union president, and the following year he travels to the United States on holiday. This student is likely to make it to the house of senate sometime in life. There he will meet people of his type (former student union presidents, maybe some he met with on his trip to the USA). Together they make the rules that pay them: the rule which says that “for every naira that my teachers receive, pay me a thousand fold.” Then they go about calling such money their salary – salary for sitting and discussing how to marry teenage girls.
But these faculties hardly go on strike to protest the bad state of our institutions. They only want more money, or to use a more fancy phrase, equality in payment. I wonder!
But we may sympathize with the fathers. After all they studied abroad, at least for some time. They saw and wanted to conquer. They wanted the conquest very fast. But as a good friend of mine would say, “Nigeria neva learn work finish dem go open store.” I think they never knew we were toddlers in regards to the kind of government which the European masters practiced. I doubt if they actually learnt the workings of government in the sustainment of growth and development. Europe has come a long way in terms of government, but our colonial masters failed to see that. Just a few offices they held here and there and they started clamoring for independence. Well, the clamor for independence goes to show that they were ignorant of how diverse Nigeria was. That was, in my opinion, the Nigerian mistake, and it’s a classic one. Our mistake was great considering the fact that our problem is great. The rest is history.
Unfortunately the children have failed more than the fathers, and the grandchildren seem set to fail more than all the previous fathers combined. A prominent Nigerian figure once said that Nigerian youths are not ready to move the nation forward and there was grumbling all over the country (we are very good at internal and peaceful protests). At first hearing I was quick to denounce such an accusation. But on first thought, I was humbled. How can we be ready when we all want to run abroad; the man who studied history wants to work in NNPC; when we tag a few thousands of naira for our vote? How can Nigerian youths be ready when they cannot stage any peaceful and forceful protest against the ever-increasing cost of transportation? They only fight the bus and taxi operators. They fail to go to the source. How can they be ready to move the nation forward when their interest is not here? Their hearts are all in Old Trafford; in the Santiago Bernabeu; in Nou Camp; in Wembley… name it. “Here can offer us nothing,” we all unconsciously and actively assume. Here is only a stepping stone to where our hearts really are. There is no stone here fit for building. Little wonder why somebody once said that Jesus Christ himself could not conduct a free and fair election in Nigeria. This caused so much noise. But on careful look we realize that he saw the point so clearly. The people do not want free and fair elections, and Jesus Christ will not force them to do so. It is that true. Imagine filling the Apple® factories with mad people. I wonder what could have become of Steve Jobs. There would be no phones let alone the ones with an “i”.
We may think it is just our nation that is affected. This is hardly the case. Nigerians go to foreign countries, and it is reported that the crime rate increases (I can’t say if it’s the claim is true or false. All I can say is that in those other countries money don’t grow on trees and that some of the citizens are even out of job). They are everywhere and they seem to do more harm than good. How can there be peace in Africa when her said giant can hardly find peace in the very Delta where she gets her living bread? This situation is not so different from that which made Daniel lament, “we have become a reproach to all that are about us.” The leaders have all gone bad. They do not lead well. The followers also have all become bad followers. They do not follow well. Many a people really wish Nigeria had more say about important matters, but that will have to wait for another say hundred, two hundred years or maybe the year 2020 after 2020. Who knows.
Of late there has come up many opinions concerning the future of this nation. There are a few who love Nigeria, while the many would curse the nation to her face, though not to the face of her guns… remember the military regimes? Of the few that love Nigeria, the many of them love her for their own sake. Where in Europe or America can one take so much public money without fear of being busted someday? This few pray constantly, “God bless Nigeria.” Of course the more Nigeria is blessed with more oil reserves, the more money they have to save’ For this few, Nigeria only works when it puts more money in their pockets. But there is the very few whose blood is ever-bubbling with the true Nigerian spirit, in the likes of Gani (I feel honored to mention his name) of blessed memory. Then there are those who say that Nigeria would not be by the year 2015. I once saw our first man on satellite television saying that preserving uniting is his mission. I wonder what kind of dream they have had.
But I see it very possible that Nigeria can work, without putting so much money in the pockets of a few. For until now we have only been hearing of vision 2020. But here we are, someone telling us that it is possible in a few years time for the Nigeria of today to be history. There will be a new Nigeria, though not necessarily one with monuments likes the millennium wheel, but a Nigeria with the intent to pursue sustained growth and development, and ruled by justice instead of judges. Not a Nigeria with a Biafra within, but a Nigeria where “one” is “one”; where “one” means “one”; where “one” resounds with the idea of progress; where the word “one” calls to mind a duty to national neighbors.
There is hope for Nigeria. She still has breath. After all, “life begins at 40”. So we’re just about 14 years old. Therefore we should strive for maturity as we draw close to the age of 15, where we draw nearer to adulthood. Let us gain wisdom in our teenage years. The elders of today must lead us; let them give us “light” (both directional and electrical) in this night (of distress and physical darkness) of our adolescence. It must start with them, but we can start if they refuse to start, after all. They say we are the leaders of tomorrow. But that does not mean that there will be no leader today. THERE IS JUST NO OTHER WAY TO DO IT! Not even when you mobilize all the youths. Unless you want to go about it the Jerry Rawlings way. But that hardly makes sense today, not even to Daniel who is our instructor today. And soon the ICC (whether Immaculate/Impeccable Conception/Conviction College/Complex, I can’t say) will be calling you to come to The Hague … for arguments of course! The greater work lies with the fathers of today. If they fail to start setting good examples, then we may all just continue to be uninterested and we remain bad citizens of a nation headed for an eventual (spell it with me) D. E. A. T. H !
But I think I had a dream
This essay was originally written in response to a call for essays made by Intercontinental Bank, now Access Bank, for the fiftieth independence anniversary of our great, but ailing nation. Many changes have been made to the original document to suit the times.


NIGERIAN WATERS
		“Not everything is as it seems.”
Cars move on roads and boats in water. I acknowledge that sometimes it is good to let people explain their jokes. I also know that sometimes it is possible for one to conclude that they understand what they may not have understood. But I have come to realize that in every apparent foolishness there is some wisdom, for even the court jester in all his foolishness nevertheless affords the wise conduct of lightening the king’s heart.
I want to talk about Nigerian waters. Is it The Niger, The Benue, or the Atlantic ocean passing through Lagos? Surely I am not an oceanographer. I even did not sit for geography in my school leaving certificate examination. In actuality I mean none of these. So what Nigerian waters are we talking about?
Somebody once told a joke about a driver who applied for a job as a driver at a bank. The day of the interview eventually came. This applicant was very impatient about letting the interviewer know that he was the most qualified candidate for the job. When it was his turn to be interviewed, he was then asked how good he was in driving. But the man quickly answered that he could drive anywhere in the world since he could drive in Nigeria.
The interviewer was puzzled and proceeded to ask this man how many years’ experience he had driving on Nigerian road. But the man replied that he had been driving on Nigerian waters for  as long as he could remember.
The interviewer then replied that the vacancy was for car drivers not boatmen. At this point the applicant answered that this was exactly what he was saying, that he had never driven on a road in Nigeria. That it was always on water that he has driven.
It was no joke, and the would-be driver was as right as the right hand of God.
You may wonder how expensive this joke is. I would give you a clue to its price tag. It was reported that the minister of transportation in 2007 when visiting the Shagamu-Ore section of the Benin-Lagos road, cried over the state of the road. Perhaps she has never been in or out of Lagos on road. Surely nobody insulted or harassed or beat her. She was not sick in any way, and no later report was heard that she has developed any sort of sudden sickness. Perhaps it may be a road sickness just as there is sea sickness. But I seriously believe it was a ‘Nigerian waters’ sickness. I cannot tell. But let it be clear that it was at the sight of the supposed road that she started crying. How expensive then is the joke? I think you may have to drive on that road to find out exactly why she had cried wolf and ultimately cried in vain.


MY ENEMY MUST DIE
		When I was growing up one of the thing with which one could recognize Christians for whom the going was tough was mostly a sticker with the words “O God, let my enemy live long and see what I will be in future.”
But now the tables have turned. The enemy seems to be living longer than allowed. The original plan was for them to see what I will be in the near future, probably six months’ time. This was because I thought the future held GRAND promises which the enemy is only allowed to take a glimpse and then disappear.
But this grand future seems to be nowhere in sight. This future looks set to bring more woes than blessings. The future now brings more of those things from which I want the enemy to see me rise. But I cannot bear the shame  of being laughed at, because I was thinking all the while that every other person was better off than I was. That they all held a banquet daily while I only manage to get two half plates in about 36 hours.
Under this situation I cannot afford to let the enemy live any longer to see this shame. It seems I would be nothing better in the future. Perhaps I would fall into a worse condition. Thus, instead of them living to see this shame, HOLY GHOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOST… FIRRRRRRREEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!!!
Even in some schools, children are being taught what is called “fire prayer.” They are taught to pray for the death of the enemy, which ironically nobody points out precisely for the child to see. They are taught to pray against every shrine in their father’s house, the same father that brought the child to church. They are taught to pray against every ancestral covenants, which is hardly defined for the child.
That is how a form of religiously-motivated monstrosity has slowly crept into our country. It is called the enemy mentality. And it is masterminded by the plenitude of churches springing everywhere in our country. Which promised unimaginable and INEXPLICABLE wealth and simultaneously attributing the poverty in the land to the making of equally poverty-stricken ENEMIES!


WHAT NAIJA MAY NOT FIND
		We Nigerians, we seek a kind of person I would describe below
A man of the people, though we are the peopleA man to shoulder our yoke, though it is us who forged the iron yokeA man to bear our grief, though it is we who beat ourselves into mourningA man by whose stripes we would be healed, though we keep on inflicting more injuries on ourselvesA man upon whom the chastisement of our peace would be laid, though it is we who forged the strongest of whips
Such a man would be a sacrificial lamb at best; a Judas at worst.
We’ve had some Judas already. Many of you may point a finger at one because I know absolutely nothing about the NAFDAC sensation.
But we still await the best, though the blood of some of them have grown tired of crying for vengeance from across Ogoni.
And what is worse?It is our unique problem: We too easily forget the past.
We have short memories. Little wonder History has very little or no place in our schools today. Our memories span just a few days at most.
We too easily let the blood of the lamb go to waste.
Now what?THINK ! ! !
Then what?ACT ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
Thanks for your time.More thanks for your thoughtfulness.


UNDERMINING THE MARITAL INSTITUTION IN NIGERIA: II

The opportune time
A graphic look at the situation at hand will help us to know when that time has come. We would know when and how they plan to have us recognize homosexual rights. The picture below presents some of the two broad views of sex that are in contention today, and how they scale up the various practices that have emerged with great force in the world of today. The problem: which of these views is to take precedence and be a template for the world of tomorrow?

We already have all of these in place in Nigeria in no small measure. The wallet of almost every liberated teenager of today contains a condom. The handset of almost every of such child has dozens of porn videos –short 30 seconds of perversion each. Many of them you would not find a picture of their mother or father in their phones. Abortion is being done in secret. Many people co-habit because they cannot arrange for a proper marriage due to self-imposed economic expenditure.
But the principal tool of the pro-homosexuals is CONTRACEPTION! They recognize that porn, though it has been around for some time, has not been enough to get us tuned to their evil music. This time they would not penalize us for not recognizing homosexual Rights. Of course they would not do that. They are nice and smart people. They are very well aware that it would lead to some form of rebellion, no matter the scale. In place of that they want us to get enlightened. Instead they want to encourage us to recognize women’s Rights. They would prefer that we self-destruct. Africa’s ENLIGHTENMENT has come, they tell us. They know it is always better to destroy the enemy from within. They would give us money to help our women. And what becomes of the men when you only help the women? I think they too will need some help. And soon we all are helped to destroy the very thing we have rejected. The story hardly ends with the word help. This help would logically lead to so many other things which we see in the picture below. Check if you recognize homosexuality there.

So, if I can have sex just for pleasure, then what business of yours is it about whom or what I decide to give me that pleasure? A dog or a di***, or even my grandma or just about any erect or hollow thing can do that for me, anytime, anywhere, plus I will be protected. This is more than license. IT IS A CERTIFICATE!
And I doubt if there is anyone who watches porn movies with a view to seeing a story. It is just disconnected episodes of perversion all through. Or if you choose to call it adult entertainment, I doubt if there is any adult who watches porn to learn how to get pregnant. It is always to know how to get more pleasure; how to f*** a woman’s brains out, and how to pleasure your man so he will beg you to stop! In very few words: how to lord it over your man or woman on the bed. The bed can no longer be shared. Someone has to take charge. And I wonder if any marriage ever was happy because somebody took charge, whether on the bed or not.
It is time for every single man and woman to come to the frontlines for the ensuing battle (it’s never going to be easy). As for those who preach a gospel of pure, uncontaminated prosperity, pay no attention to them. We (every man and woman) are the salt of the earth, let them not lose their flavor; they are the light of the world, let them not ask the world for light; they are the leaven of the world, let them not become the world’s dough. While others pursue prosperity, let them not forsake posterity. Let them ask for their family. We, all of humanity, will prosper, but as a family; arm in arm. We are brothers in arms. Let us live up to it –you and I and everybody who wishes his/her child to have a meaningful life in the world of tomorrow.


UNDERMINING THE MARITAL INSTITUTION IN NIGERIA: I

Searching for moral grounds


“Goodnight daddy; goodnight mummy,” said the innocent little voice of Ciroma. And as he slept on he dreamt of his friends, Chukwuma and Adebola, as they said each bid their parents goodnight before going to sleep. This episode brings up memories of things which are set to disappear if we… Whether 1st, 3rd, or 5th, or even 7th world countries; man or woman; old or young, all must necessarily feel the same current of western social life that is sweeping through our globe through the media of the internet and satellite, all of which I will prefer to call TeleVision (which brings faraway near at hand). In very few words, our world has become a global village. And one major advantage of this telepresence revolution is that it can be a valid test of the values of a particular nation, race, or culture. In the words of E. B. White, “by TV we will either stand or fall.”


No other institution is being vehemently tested today as that of marriage; of its meaning and significance in society (with its attending consequence on the value of the traditional human family). Since these two dimensions of marriage are being probed, then, all who has a stake – and in fact everybody does – in the eventual outcome must take sides; if not sooner but later. But it has to be sooner because leaving it for later may have disastrous consequences. Now is the accepted time!


By the time higher powers are threatening to withdraw aid from my nation if we refuse to recognize homosexual rights (a practice which effectively undermines the marital institution), then, we become fully awake to the fact that something bigger than we can contain is upon us; we become aware that not all aid is aid; that some aids are actually AIDS. But I do not know if we realize yet that we have to take sides at once. The fact that there has been a little lull doesn’t mean that the storm has passes; rather it has left us to return at a more opportune time. And just when that opportune time will be is something we will see later on. But now we must endeavor to build our defenses in this time of supposed calm.


Our politicians may have succeeded in temporarily warding off the first attack with a mouthful of words that homosexuality is forbidden in our culture. But we all know too well that we cannot entrust the protection of our cultural values to politicians, who have largely been unable to keep proper account of something less valuable: our money. To see the truth of the emptiness of their statements, assume that the order was for our country to recognize the Right to take public funds if you happen to have the opportunity. What do you think would have being the response from our politicians? It would still be that corruption is forbidden in our nation, isn’t it? But even children of 5 years old know that Nigeria cast. Moreover, I think we would be in agreement if we say that their response is simply out of respect of public sentiment. It was in respect of us that they decided to say no. it was in our culture that they based their response, not on the culture of politics. We – all of us – feel shy about the topic of homosexuality. It is a taboo in our culture. And if we should stop feeling shy about the issue sometime later, then, no politician will stop us from recognizing homosexual rights. We see now that it is not enough to feel shy about it the issue and entrust it into the hands of some politicians. We, the people whose cultural values are at stake must take action to protect that which we hold dear, for it is the side we take today that will decide what our children will bless us or curse us about. We must face this evil now and deal with it otherwise, it will build upon the many we have took for granted. We must seek ways to strengthen our already living cultural values.


I could remember there was once a time when we booed ladies who wore trousers in our country. But today they have moved from mini to micro and lower and getting set to return to the primitive state of man in the jungle: nakedness! And nobody blinks an eye; instead we are opening our eyes wider; we are taking a second look. I do not think that any politician came on air to announce that we should tolerate this trend. It was we the people who decided to let them alone. So we are the ones who will decide whether to let homosexuals alone or not, not any politician. And it is upon this letting be that the new threat will build.


I have never seen any politician advocating for the articulation and establishment of a concrete cultural nay national philosophy, even in the face of the fast-changing world of tomorrow. In my view, whatever they must have said to the higher powers are mere straw in the face of what we currently face. How do these politicians expect us to trust them? I seriously do not think they do. Is it not they who allow the school bags of our primary and secondary school students to be full of movies of animalistic philosophies of sex that are made in Obodo Oyibo? How can we entrust our marital institution to these same politicians who condone the fact that every movie outlet down the street has many, many, many more perverse videos in stock than it has educational ones? How can we trust them when they allow our movie industry to be dying even in its mother’s milk due to the shift from good movies to the near- porn which they display these days, and which pass through our censors board untouched? Take a look at the titles of Nigerian movies today. You see titles like, “the lesbians,” “kingdom of Sodom and Gomorrah,” and the list of perverse titles is endless.


We would see this point very clearly if we simply ask our politicians on what moral ground their response were based; on the foundation upon which their response is based; and where they teach our children about it. I simply do not know of any, neither from school nor from home. And I would take it that there is none, or that there is one and nobody taught it to me. And if nobody teaches it to his/her children then it eventually dies out if it exists. My father married two equally fecund wives. And for that singular reason I think polygamy is a part of my traditional system and till now the practice has not been totally dropped. And you find this polygamy everywhere in the country, even among some of those people who call themselves Christians. So we see how difficult it is for any such system to reject homosexuality on strong moral ground – at least not in today’s world. Because the only reason a man who has at least one child would take a second (younger) wife is so that he can get more pleasure, such as his first (older) wife used to give him, but which age would not allow her to do. And it is precisely on this issue of pleasure that the whole argument about the sexual freedom thing revolves.


So in the event that our culture (at least the ones I know of) cannot find a solid ground on which to base its rejection of homosexual rights, to whom do we turn? Are we to give in to the demands of the homosexuals or are we to look elsewhere for moral grounds on which to base our rejection of their demands? Where do we go from here?



THE NIGERIAN MAFIA

‘Opportunity makes the thief,’ says V, the enigmatic author of the book, “the mafia manager”. It is a book that talks about organizing your life business in the way the mafia organized itself, and so was very successful in its day. Try to read a copy if you can get one. But I still think most of us will defend the position that organised crime is not something desirable.


 I’m sure that if you ever hear that word, ‘organised crime’ your mind will quickly race to movies like the Godfather and Donnie Brasco. In fact I did think that way for long until someday, likely out of nowhere, I saw the MAFIA in us: in Nigerians. The most important difference between the Nigerian mafia and the Italian mafia is that the Nigerian mafia has no such thing as an overarching ‘dons.’ Everybody is his/her own don. I know there’s Godfatherism, but we are talking about ordinary everyday life here. Those of us who walk side by side in our water-flooded streets day by day. It all starts with fuel.


Fuel, we may not have realised, drives, more than motor vehicles. Fuel drives the world – including this country called Nigeria. We Nigerians saw the worst increase of fuel price from the days of baba. Over his eight-year tenure fuel prices rose from a mere N11.00 to a staggering N65.00. That is an equivalent of 490% increase! Or about six (6) times the usual price. That is like adding N11.00 to the price of fuel every year. Yet our country is diving backwards in terms of development (forget about what you see in the news and look to what you see in your streets and markets).


When I say fuel I mean petrol, or what Americans call gas. But whatever name you call it provided a motor vehicle or motorcycle utilizes it to move from place to place.


 It is presently known that we do not use coins in Nigeria, even if it is made of diamond. It is forbidden to us – though we do have such currency. It is seen as a sign of poverty to even mention the word “coins” (ironically, a piece of N1.00 coin has greater self-value than a N100 dollar note). If you still have some coins at the time you read this, I’m afraid you may just be less rich by that amount of coins which you own. It would serve you better to just put them somewhere you won’t see them, so that it won’t hurt to see them daily, lying in waste. I personally have about N40 naira worth of coins which have been there for over three years (I mean the 50 kobo, N1.00, and N2.00 denominations).


But exactly how does this issue of coins relate to the organised crime in Nigeria which we are presently discussing?


At such times when the price of fuel goes up, there is usually a distortion in the price of every other thing. Let’s say that the cost of transportation to a certain place is currently N10.00. If there is a N1.00 increase in the price of fuel, the road transport operators must increase their fare. This is fairly understandable; at least nobody can bear the burden of a naira being taken out of his/her pocket. But the question is ‘by how much should these transporters increase their fare?’ To be fair, the transporter ought to distribute this loss equally among those who utilize his service, isn’t it? But what do we find? The fare to cover a distance which N10.00 previously covered will now be covered at N15.00! This is grossly out of proportion, or what do you think? But are to blame this transporter? Could he have increased his fare to N11.00? Possible, but NOT feasible, since nobody uses coins. Again, this transporter has the backing of his union. Every other transporter increases their fare also.


Initially, these transporters are happy since they see it as an opportunity to gain an extra N4.00 when they lose N1.00. They have successfully organised a crime and the maga is fast paying. But he is yet to get to the market where they would be required to take out money from their pocket to buy those things which his vehicle cannot produce. The most interesting thing is that he must buy from the same people whom he had transported at ‘his’ new price. He finds that any trader he meets has his/her own version of the crime, and he MUST FALL victim.


He goes home lamenting that things are too expensive in the market, but almost never mentions that transportation cost has increased. The trader, likewise, laments the increase in transportation cost, but almost never mentions that s/he has sold at a higher price. Everybody laments where it hurts them, and almost nobody admits to having hurt anybody. On and on and on and on and on and on it goes…………………..ad infinitum.


There is virtually no standard, and so all we see is scandal. Our cry is similar to what we see when a bereaved person mourns. Normally, there should be some people who comfort the bereaved because they are able to cry less. But in our case, everybody scrambles for his/her voice to be the loudest. “I must put all my energy into making sure I’m heard”, we seem to tell ourselves. So nobody hears anybody and nobody hears anything since the whole place is filled with noise.


I only wish that our transporters, in such a situation, would refuse to subscribe to an increase in fuel price, and thus not transport anything – goods or persons – surely the traders and the others would have no choice but to join the transporters in their cry. This way everybody’s voice would resound with harmony, and everyone will feel the spirit of the music – even those at the TOP. But we are all too busy organising crimes that we do not see that the crimes which we organise turn back to organise our destruction. We fail to see that the evil that we do no longer lives after us, it lives with us.



ASUU AGAIN
		In Nigeria we have a body that is called ACADEMIC STAFF UNION OF UNIVERSITIES (ASUU). I’m sure you can make out what this union stands for from its name. To be sure, I never followed the local news whether on paper or on television. But I must say something about this body which I usually hear from fellow students when they complain of lecturers going on strike. I hear from them that the lecturers are complaining that the people in government – senators, house of representative members etc. – receive more money than they who taught them.
“Why would the people we taught and trained earn more money than us?” is the underlying question. This becomes a grievance that often ends up in a strike being called. I wonder why many people still see this kind of complaint as legitimate.
But have we asked the obvious question, which is this: do these government officials really earn their money? I would rather say that they have or take home more money, not that they earn more money. Are these two not the same thing? I wonder why I even decided not to call them the same. It’s like calling a rose a red flower, huh? But wait. Who pays these government officials, if I may ask? They pay themselves. They make the rules that pay them. They make the rule which says, that for every N1.00 that my teachers recieve, pay me N1000.00. Now you begin to wonder with me.
Now to return to the complaints of the lecturers. I really think that if they are the ones who trained these government officials (as they themselves testify), then, these people are doing just what they were taught! Plus, they do it with perfection. It’s that simple. They were taught how to take home more money. You might wonder how this is the case. But I think you would have a rethink if I told you that a student union government (SUG) president reportedly travelled to the US for a holiday after just one year in office. And another one, a female, was reported to have cornered ONE MILLION NAIRA.
Right now any well-meaning person would ask what the school authorities did to these students. Well, the answer is a painful and well-serving NOTHING!
Therefore, having gotten away with this kind of misconduct in school, it is very likely that these students will go further and meet with people of their kind from all over the federation.  That is how we end up having a collection of them in our senate and assembly houses. From here they take off and continue practising exactly what they have been taught in school: HOW TO TAKE HOME MORE MONEY! which is usually an object of grievance for their teachers.
And presently ASUU is on strike. The problem: money, money, money…………………ad infinitum.


VOTED AUTHORITY: A SCAM
		Voted authorities try to make you assume you can trust them
Hey! Shine your eyes
They are men and women just like you are.
But you may ask about their being responsible to you.
Well, they are only so much responsible to you as you are to your family. No big deal; nothing more.
So, you throwing a piece of UN-marked paper into a MARKED box doesn’t make them a bit better than they were before you did so.
You just can’t trust them any more than you can trust a mouse to look after your piece of meat.
And what is worse?
Power corrupts
Now what?
THINK ! ! !
Thanks for your time.
More thanks for your thoughtfulness.
